docs(blade): add Checkbox API decisions (#539)
razorpay/blade: packages/blade/src/components/Checkbox/_decisions/decisions.md

| isDisabled          | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is disabled or not.                                                                                                         |
| hasError           | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is invalid or not.                                                                                                          |
| isRequired          | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is required or not.                                                                                                         |

### Examples:

#### Basic

```tsx
// Label text
<Checkbox>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
// Helper text
<Checkbox helpText="Hint: yes">is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
// uncontrolled
<Checkbox defaultChecked={true}>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
// controlled
<Checkbox isChecked={true | false} onChange={isChecked => {}}>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
```

#### Validations

> And `hasError` will pass `aria-invalid` attributes to indicate invalid state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`hasError` will pass `aria-invalid` attributes to indicate invalid state.
```

```tsx
<Checkbox hasError={true | false}>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
```

## `CheckboxGroup` API

| Prop          | Type                        | Required | Default     | Description                                                                                                                        |
| ------------- | --------------------------- | -------- | ----------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| children      | `React.ReactNode`             | Yes       | `undefined` | Accepts multiple Checkboxes                                                                                                        |
| label         | `string`                    | Yes       | `undefined` | The label of the group                                                                                                             |
| labelPosition | `top, left`                 | No       | `top`       | The position of the rendered label                                                                                                 |

> | helpText    | `string`                    | No       | `undefined` | The helper text to be rendered                                                                                                     |

Reviewer: I am assuming the only difference between `helpText` and `errorText` at the Checkbox group level is that one appears in grey while the other appears in red, they both have the same positioning. What happens if a user provides values for both? Are they going to stack up on one another. Don't remember seeing that in the designs though.

Author: > helpText and users can themselves do helpText = hasError? errortext:helptext?

In here we already have the information if the CheckboxGroup is in error state or not via hasError. and you also need this to change the helper text color right? Users should not handle all these logic IMO. 

So this will look kinda odd: 
<CheckboxGroup hasError helperText={hasError ? "Err" : "Ok" } />

Reviewer 2: Will renaming it to something generic help? like `caption={hasError ? 'boooo' : 'yay'}` sort of API? other alternatives for names `subText`, `text`, `validityMessage`, etc 🤔 ?

 > why do we have errorText at Checkbox group only and not individual checkbox level? is that intentional?

cause I also got confused in this part. I would imagine API on all components from design system to be similar otherwise people will have to remember each and every decision while working no?

Author: >  like caption={hasError ? 'boooo' : 'yay'}

yes but we will still need to know the error state. to be able to set proper aria-invalid & colors. 

> cause I also got confused in this part

We've changed this, now single checkbox will also have errorText

  helpText="Pick blade developers"
  defaultValue={['anurag', 'kamlesh']}
>
  <Checkbox value="anurag">Anurag</Checkbox>
  <Checkbox value="kamlesh">Kamlesh</Checkbox>
  <Checkbox value="chaitanya">Chaitanya</Checkbox>
</CheckboxGroup>
```

#### Controlled, Uncontrolled

```tsx
const Controlled = () => {
  const [selected, setSelected] = React.useState(['anurag', 'kamlesh']);

  return (
    <CheckboxGroup 
      label="Developers (controlled)" 
      value={selected} 
      onChange={setSelected}
    >
      <Checkbox value="anurag">Anurag</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="kamlesh">Kamlesh</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="chaitanya">Chaitanya</Checkbox>
    </CheckboxGroup>
  );
};

const Uncontrolled = () => {
  return (
    <CheckboxGroup
      label="Developers (uncontrolled)"
      defaultValue={['anurag', 'chaitanya']}
    >
      <Checkbox value="anurag">Anurag</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="kamlesh">Kamlesh</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="chaitanya">Chaitanya</Checkbox>
    </CheckboxGroup>
  );
};
```

### Note on CheckboxGroup

For properties `isDisabled`, `hasError` we want the CheckboxGroup to pass down these props to all the Checkboxes inside of it.

> For showing optional label in `CheckboxGroup` we will introduce a prop `showOptionalLabel` which will only render a `(optional)` tag in the CheckboxGroupLabel,

Reviewer: I think we can add a screenshot here from design of how the `optional` label will look so that it's clearer.

Author: Added

> # Checkbox Decisions <!-- omit in toc -->

Reviewer 3: image ko render to krdo bhai markdown me, can't find it 🙈

Author: Oh that Image is for "component architecture" I added that section initially in the decision file but to moved it to the PR later. https://github.com/razorpay/blade/pull/544#issue-1301661653

Reviewer 3: didn't get you? how can someone look at this image? apart from navigating directly from the directory?

Author: They won't cuz I'll delete it 🤣 There's no reference to this image anymore in the Decision file. 

We had before when [we had the "component architecture" section.](https://github.com/razorpay/blade/blob/91c15c6bd2ce889f4ec866499dc028e0fd22120c/packages/blade/src/components/Checkbox/_decisions/decisions.md#component-architecture)

    - [Validations](#validations)
- [`CheckboxGroup` API](#checkboxgroup-api)
  - [Examples:](#examples-1)
    - [Basic](#basic-1)
    - [Controlled, Uncontrolled](#controlled-uncontrolled)
  - [Note on CheckboxGroup](#note-on-checkboxgroup)
- [Component Architecture](#component-architecture)
- [Accessibility](#accessibility)
- [Open Questions](#open-questions)

## Design

[Figma Link](https://www.figma.com/file/jubmQL9Z8V7881ayUD95ps/Blade---Payment-Light?node-id=13227%3A163026) to all variants of the Checkbox component

## `Checkbox` API

| Prop                | Type       | Required | Default   | Description                                                                                                                                              |
| ------------------- | ---------- | -------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| children            | `string`   | No       | undefined | The text to be rendered as CheckboxLabel                                                                                                                 |

> | helpText          | `string`   | No       | undefined | The helper text to be rendered                                                                                                                           |

Author: Sure

> | isChecked           | `boolean`  | No       | false     | state of the checkbox, if explicitly set the checkbox will be controlled                                                                                 |

Author: Done

| defaultChecked      | `boolean`  | No       | false     | default state of the checkbox, if isChecked is not provided the checkbox will be uncontrolled                                                            |

> | onChange            | `Function` | No       | undefined | The function to be called when the checkbox state changes.                                                                                               |

Author: Sure

> | onChange            | `(isChecked: boolean) => void` | No       | undefined | The function to be called when the checkbox state changes.                                                                                               |

Author: Added: event, value, isChecked

> | isIndeterminate     | `boolean`  | No       | false     | mixed state of the checkbox                                                                                                                              |

Reviewer 4: In which cases can there be an indeterminate state? Let's add in description too

Author: Will do, isIndeterminate will be an independent state boolean. which the user will handle the logic. 

[Live demo: ](https://61c19ee8d3d282003ac1d81c-evllbcmcsj.chromatic.com/?path=/story/components-checkbox--indeterminate-checkbox&globals=measureEnabled:false)

> | isIndeterminate     | `boolean`  | No       | false     | mixed state of the checkbox                                                                                                                              |

Author: No doesn't depend on isChecked. isIndeterminate will override the isChecked state. 

So if you have 
<Checkbox isChecked={true} isIndeterminate={true} />

The checkbox will be in indeterminate state and because we don't want. 
example: https://github.com/razorpay/blade/pull/544/files#diff-ecad1a0cb9d580749fedae8066d59e12d65733f666f0f39cc9389af1bfd057ffR129

| name (html native)  | `string`   | No       | undefined | The name of the input field in a checkbox, [useful in form submissions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#name)            |

> | value (html native) | `string`   | No       | undefined | The value of the input field in a checkbox, [useful in form submissions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/checkbox#value) |

Author: Yes. This value & name prop will be mandatory if you want uncontrolled forms which some form libraries do.

| isDisabled          | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is disabled or not.                                                                                                         |

> | hasError           | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is invalid or not.                                                                                                          |

Reviewer 5: question: can't we use the `errorText` to find if CheckBox is valid or not. Why we need to use `hasError`. It will put the source of the truth for error in multiple places.

Author: Yes from code side we can but it won't be ergonomic to use. 
If we only provide errorText users will have to manually handle logic to set or unset it. 

```tsx
const { errors } = useSomeFormLibrary();

<CheckboxGroup errorText={errors.length > 0 ? "Opps something went wrong" : null} />
```

While with hasError it's much cleaner

```tsx
const { errors } = useSomeFormLibrary();

<CheckboxGroup 
   hasError={errors.length > 0}
   errorText="Opps something went wrong" 
 />
```

hasError in this case will just be a boolean toggle if set to true `errorText` will be shown

Author: Update: we have changed hasError to validationState which takes `'error' | undefined` to be consistent with other Input Elements which takes `validationState=error|success|normal`

> | hasError           | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is invalid or not.                                                                                                          |

Author: Yes, we have a CheckboxGroupHint which has variant of `'error' | 'help'`

> | validationState           | `undefined | 'error'`  | No       | `undefined`   | Control whether the checkbox is invalid or not.                                                                                                          |

Author: Yes. github being weird.

> | validationState           | `undefined | 'error'`  | No       | `undefined`   | Control whether the checkbox is invalid or not.                                                                                                          |

Author: Resolved.

> | isRequired          | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is required or not.                                                                                                         |

Reviewer 3: can't find this prop on Checkbox Group 🤔

Author: We need some discussion around this 
https://github.com/razorpay/blade/pull/539#discussion_r918765931

### Examples:

#### Basic

```tsx
// Label text
<Checkbox>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
// Helper text
<Checkbox helpText="Hint: yes">is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
// uncontrolled
<Checkbox defaultChecked={true}>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
// controlled

> <Checkbox isChecked={true | false} onChange={isChecked => {}}>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>

Author: Currently only passing the isChecked state, not sure if we need value since it will be static anyways.

> <Checkbox isChecked={true | false} onChange={isChecked => {}}>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>

Reviewer 3: what do you mean by static?

> <Checkbox isChecked={true | false} onChange={isChecked => {}}>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>

Author: value won't change even if checkbox is checked or unchecked

> <Checkbox isChecked={true | false} onChange={isChecked => {}}>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>

Author: Okay in that case we can add that in. Similar to how you have done in TextInput

> <Checkbox isChecked={true | false} onChange={isChecked => {}}>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>

Author: Added

| ------------- | --------------------------- | -------- | ----------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| children      | `React.ReactNode`             | Yes       | `undefined` | Accepts multiple Checkboxes                                                                                                        |
| label         | `string`                    | Yes       | `undefined` | The label of the group                                                                                                             |
| labelPosition | `top, left`                 | No       | `top`       | The position of the rendered label                                                                                                 |
| helpText    | `string`                    | No       | `undefined` | The helper text to be rendered                                                                                                     |

> | errorText    | `string`                    | No       | `undefined` | The error text to be rendered                                                                                                     |

Author: Done.

| defaultValue  | `string[]`                  | No       | `[]`        | The initial value of the checkbox group                                                                                            |
| value         | `string[]`                  | No       | `[]`        | The value of the checkbox, if present will act as controlled component                                                             |

> | onChange      | `(value: string[]) => void` | No       | `undefined` | The function to be called when any checkbox's state changes                                                                        |

Reviewer 3: i think we shall also pass `event` and `name` as args along with `value`

Author: Not sure if we have the usecase. Also there is no 'event' for CheckboxGroup since it's custom managed state.

> | value         | `string[]`                  | No       | `[]`        | The value of the checkbox, if present will act as [controlled component](https://reactjs.org/docs/forms.html#controlled-components)                                                             |

Reviewer 2: Can we not figure out defaultValue from `value` prop itself? 🤔

Author: value can be dynamically be set by the user and be changed. We can't effectively guess what user wants depending on if they provide onChange or not. 

For example. What If i want default values but also like to listen for onChange? 

```tsx
// this is default value or controlled value? 
<Checkbox value={true} /> 

// is this controlled or uncontrolled?
<Checkbox value={true} onChange={e => only want to listening to the change event} /> 
```

> | value         | `string[]`                  | No       | `[]`        | The value of the checkbox, if present will act as [controlled component](https://reactjs.org/docs/forms.html#controlled-components)                                                             |

Author: Not sure exactly. I think value should be fine since CheckboxGroup will always have multiple checkbox and works like a single Form Field. Similar to how <select multiple value=[] /> in native html.

| name          | `string`                    | No       | `undefined` | The name of the checkbox group, [useful in form submissions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#name) |
| isDisabled    | `boolean`                   | No       | `false`     | Control whether the checkbox group is disabled or not.                                                                             |
| hasError     | `boolean`                   | No       | `false`     | Control whether the checkbox group is invalid or not.                                                                              |
| showOptionalLabel    | `boolean`                   | No       | `false`     | Shows optional label in checkbox group header |

### Examples:

#### Basic

```tsx
<CheckboxGroup
  label="Developers"
  helpText="Pick blade developers"
  defaultValue={['anurag', 'kamlesh']}
>

>   <Checkbox value="anurag">Anurag</Checkbox>

Author: You can't really. At least not from TS. 
We can either filter out only the <Checkbox /> or throw an error on runtime.

>   <Checkbox value="anurag">Anurag</Checkbox>

Reviewer 3: can't we restrict the children to be of certain types only? at least with react's helper we can do runtime, but isn't that information available at type level?

>   <Checkbox value="anurag">Anurag</Checkbox>

Author: No we are already executing the JSX elements by the time we accept the children. 

<Checkbox />
Translates to: 
React.createElement(Checkbox, {})

Every JSX element will just return `JSX.Element` as it's type. 
For now [TS can't handle it](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/issues/13618)

> | necessityIndicator    | `'optional' | 'required' | undefined`                   | No       | `undefined`     | Renders optional or required indicators in the group, if set to undefined renders nothing |

Reviewer 2: Checkbox has `isRequired` but CheckboxGroup has this `necessityIndicator`. Can we standardise `isRequired` for everything?

Author: We can't because the CheckboxGroup can also have `(optional)` and `(required)` tags in the label. 

1. If in a form all inputs are required and only few are optional we will render optional in those instead of polluting all the inputs with required tag. 
2. Similarly if in a form all inputs are optional and only few are required we will only set required on those inputs only.

Reviewer 2: > We can't because the CheckboxGroup can also have (optional) and (required) tags in the label.

didn't understand this. So `isRequired={true}` will be same as `necessityIndicator="required"` and `isRequired={false}` will be same as `necessityIndicator="optional"` right?

> If in a form all inputs are required and only few are optional we will render optional in those instead of polluting all the inputs with required tag.
> Similarly if in a form all inputs are optional and only few are required we will only set required on those inputs only.

We can still do both of these from `isRequired` right? basically see the props of children and make decision based on that. I am guessing that is how we will do it even in `necessityIndicator` case?

Reviewer 2: Alsoo what happens in this case-
```ts
<CheckboxGroup neccessityIndicator="optional">
  <Checkbox isRequired={true} />
  <Checkbox isRequired={false} />
  <Checkbox isRequired={false} />
</CheckboxGroup>
```

Is the first checkbox here now required or optional?

Author: > didn't understand this. So isRequired={true} will be same as necessityIndicator="required" and isRequired={false} will be same as necessityIndicator="optional" right?

True but technically there are 3 states. 
The last one is the absence of `necessityIndicator` will render nothing. the `necessityIndicator` is mostly a visual prop for the group. and it happens to just propagate the isRequired prop for accessibility.

Reviewer 2: oh got it. makes sense.

What happens in this case btw https://github.com/razorpay/blade/pull/539#discussion_r924360265

Author: @saurabhdaware yes need to discuss on that. 

Currently if user set onChange, defaultChecked, isChecked on individual checkboxes inside the group we throw error. Maybe we also need to do this for isRequired.

    >
      <Checkbox value="anurag">Anurag</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="kamlesh">Kamlesh</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="chaitanya">Chaitanya</Checkbox>
    </CheckboxGroup>
  );
};
```

### Note on CheckboxGroup

For properties `isDisabled`, `hasError` we want the CheckboxGroup to pass down these props to all the Checkboxes inside of it.

For showing optional label in `CheckboxGroup` we will introduce a prop `showOptionalLabel` which will only render a `(optional)` tag in the CheckboxGroupLabel,
And the consumer will provide proper validation logic and depending on their use case and requirements they will pass `hasError` in conjunction with `showOptionalLabel` and they should also use `helpText` to convey the correct intent and extra information to the user.

<img width="578" alt="Screenshot of checkbox with optional tag" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/35374649/178486036-9371917f-b599-4f8b-b455-92d2c5f91c4b.png">

**Example of user managed validation**

Example of only one checkbox needs to be checked:

```tsx
function AnyOneHasToBeSelected() {
  const [selected, setSelected] = React.useState([]);

  return (
    <CheckboxGroup

>       label="Do you love any of the fruites?"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      label="Do you love any of the fruits?"
```

Author: lol it's always this spelling mistake 🙈 I should start using other examples like `Select your fav typescript feature`.

      helpText="You can select multiple"
      value={selected}
      onChange={setSelected}

>       hasError={selected.length === 0}

Reviewer 4: This check seems contrasting with the description - example of only one checkbox needs to be checked and the helpText. With this check, we can have multiple selected right? Should it be `selected.length !== 1`

Author: The example is `AnyOneHasToBeSelected` thus seems fine? If none of them are selected we will set error to true.

Reviewer 4: Oh I see, got me confused. You should reword it - <s>only one</s> any one / atleast one 😄

>       helpText="You can select multiple"

Author: Updated. Altho ideally we need content guidelines from design for these cases what to put in helperText and errorText.

    >
      <Checkbox value="apple">apple</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="mango">mango</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="orange">orange</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="banana">banana</Checkbox>
    </CheckboxGroup>
  );
}
```

Example of every checkboxes needs to be checked:

```tsx
function AllOfThemHasToBeSelected() {
  const [selected, setSelected] = React.useState([]);

  return (
    <CheckboxGroup
      label="Do you agree to all the terms?"
      helpText="Select all"
      value={selected}
      onChange={setSelected}

>       hasError={selected.length < 2}

Author: Correct.

>       hasError={selected.length < 3 ? 'error' : undefined}

Reviewer 3: this example needs to be updated with `validationState` prop? and we also need to add `errorText` prop?

Author: Updated.

    >
      <Checkbox value="use-ts">I will use TS</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="no-any">I won't use any</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="use-js">I won't use JS</Checkbox>
    </CheckboxGroup>
  );
}
```

## Accessibility

- Checkbox - https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/checkbox/
- CheckboxGroup - The group's accessibility is bit tricky to get right, thus I'll implement and refine it and then document it here. 

## Open Questions

1. Currently we only have `helpText` in Checkbox & CheckboxGroup and when we set `hasError` it becomes the `negative` variant. The problem is the content of the `helpText` should also change in certain scenarios to convey the exact error. 

With this approach users will have to handle the logic

```tsx
const [hasError, setInvalid] = React.useState(false);

<Checkbox 
  hasError={hasError}
  helpText={
    hasError
    ? 'Invalid username provided, contains special chars' 
    : 'Enter valid username'
  }
/>
```

> Will it be better to have a `errorText` prop instead which will automatically be switched internally is `hasError` is true? 

Author: Discussed this already, we are keeping errorText on individual checkboxes too.

>   hasError={hasError}

Reviewer 2: a bit confused. Don't see this prop in API reference chart above. Are we use `validationState: 'error'` or `hasError` 🤔 ?

Author: validationState. Will fix it.

```tsx
const [hasError, setInvalid] = React.useState(false);

<Checkbox 
  hasError={hasError}
  helpText={'Enter valid username'}
  errorText={'Invalid username provided, contains special chars'}
/>
```

> **Conclusion:** No `errorText` on the `Checkbox` itself, we will only have it on `CheckboxGroup`.

Reviewer 2: I think this will be updated right https://github.com/razorpay/blade/pull/539/files#r924185463?

Author: Right

Reviewer 3: can we update this open questions section? right now after our discussions this seems misleading

Author: Updated.

# Checkbox Decisions <!-- omit in toc -->

- [Design](#design)
- [Anatomy](#anatomy)
- [`Checkbox` API](#checkbox-api)
  - [Examples:](#examples)
    - [Basic](#basic)
    - [Validations](#validations)
- [`CheckboxGroup` API](#checkboxgroup-api)
  - [Examples:](#examples-1)
    - [Basic](#basic-1)
    - [Controlled, Uncontrolled](#controlled-uncontrolled)
  - [Note on CheckboxGroup](#note-on-checkboxgroup)
- [Component Architecture](#component-architecture)
- [Accessibility](#accessibility)
- [Open Questions](#open-questions)

## Design

[Figma Link](https://www.figma.com/file/jubmQL9Z8V7881ayUD95ps/Blade---Payment-Light?node-id=13227%3A163026) to all variants of the Checkbox component

## `Checkbox` API

| Prop                | Type       | Required | Default   | Description                                                                                                                                              |
| ------------------- | ---------- | -------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | children            | `string`   | No       | undefined | The text to be rendered as CheckboxLabel                                                                                                                 |

Reviewer 3: nit(OCD triggering): can you format all the `undefined` to look same? half of them are code formatted other half are not, follow one pattern please? :D

Author: Sure.

| isIndeterminate     | `boolean`  | No       | false     | mixed state of the checkbox                                                                                                                              |
| isDisabled          | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is disabled or not.                                                                                                         |
| isRequired          | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is required or not.                                                                                                         |
| helpText          | `string`   | No       | undefined | The helper text to be rendered                                                                                                                           |
| errorText          | `string`   | No       | undefined | The error text to be rendered                                                                                                                           |

> | validationState           | `undefined \| 'error'`  | No       | `undefined`   | Control whether the checkbox is invalid or not.                                                                                                          |

Reviewer 3: do we really need `undefined` as a value?

Author: Yes we should add undefined as value. Since we are treating it as a value. 

For example in code also we should do this: 

```ts
// explicitly setting undefined in the union
type CheckboxProps = {
  validationState?: 'error' | undefined;
}
```

**But Why?** 

because if consumers set [exactOptionalPropertyTypes](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig#exactOptionalPropertyTypes) in their tsconfig.json they will get error that undefined is not assignable. 

```tsx
<Checkbox validationState={undefined}>Hello</Checkbox>;
^
Type '{ children: string; validationState: undefined; }' is not assignable to type 'CheckboxProps' with 'exactOptionalPropertyTypes: true'. Consider adding 'undefined' to the types of the target's properties.
  Types of property 'validationState' are incompatible.
    Type 'undefined' is not assignable to type '"error"'.ts(2375)
```

**[More info in this Slack Thread ](https://razorpay.slack.com/archives/C02FRV92MPH/p1651860634820809?thread_ts=1651851415.416079&cid=C02FRV92MPH)**

Reviewer 3: okay then if that's the case i would recommend to have a semantic value for undefined state(and we can use this everywhere then even in text input I'll update).
basically,

```
validationState = 'error' | 'success' | 'none'
```

that would be better to write in code too

```
validationState={text.length < 10 ? 'error' : 'none'}
```

Author: Yes that's what I'm also pushing for https://github.com/razorpay/blade/pull/552#discussion_r926472221 

'none' seems fine. cc @nashcheez

| name (html native)  | `string`   | No       | undefined | The name of the input field in a checkbox, [useful in form submissions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#name)            |
| value (html native) | `string`   | No       | undefined | The value of the input field in a checkbox, [useful in form submissions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/checkbox#value) |

### Examples:

#### Basic

```tsx
// Label text
<Checkbox>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
// Helper text
<Checkbox helpText="Hint: yes">is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
// uncontrolled
<Checkbox defaultChecked={true}>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
// controlled
<Checkbox isChecked={true | false} onChange={({ isChecked }) => {}}>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
```

#### Validations

And `validationState` will pass `aria-invalid` attributes to indicate invalid state.

```tsx
<Checkbox validationState={'error' | undefined}>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
```

> ## `CheckboxGroup` API

Reviewer 3: no `isRequired` prop on checkboxgroup? that shall be a general validation for all input fields. thoughts?

Author: Nope. no required prop on checkbox. Passing down required prop from checkboxgroup to individual checkboxes doesn't make sense since we don't know if user wants all/some or atleast one to be required or not. 

We only have neccessityIndicator=required

| name          | `string`                    | No       | `undefined` | The name of the checkbox group, [useful in form submissions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#name) |
| isDisabled    | `boolean`                   | No       | `false`     | Control whether the checkbox group is disabled or not.                                                                             |
| helpText    | `string`                    | No       | `undefined` | The helper text to be rendered                                                                                                     |
| errorText    | `string`                    | No       | `undefined` | The error text to be rendered                                                                                                     |
| validationState     | `undefined \| 'error'`                   | No       | `undefined`     | Control whether the checkbox group is invalid or not.                                                                              |

> | necessityIndicator    | `'optional' \| 'required' \| undefined`                   | No       | `undefined`     | Renders optional or required indicators in the group, if set to undefined renders nothing |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| necessityIndicator    | `'optional' \| 'required' \| undefined`                   | No       | `undefined`     | Renders `${label} (optional)` for `optional` and `${label} *` for `required`. if set to undefined renders nothing |
```

Author: Done.

- Checkbox - https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/checkbox/
- CheckboxGroup - The group's accessibility is bit tricky to get right, thus I'll implement and refine it and then document it here. 

## Open Questions

1. Currently we only have `helpText` in Checkbox & CheckboxGroup and when we set `validationState=error` it becomes the `negative` variant. The problem is the content of the `helpText` should also change in certain scenarios to convey the exact error. 

With this approach users will have to handle the logic

```tsx
const [validationState, setValidationState] = React.useState(undefined);

<Checkbox 
  validationState={validationState}
  helpText={
    validationState === 'error'
    ? 'Invalid username provided, contains special chars' 
    : 'Enter valid username'
  }
/>
```

Will it be better to have a `errorText` prop instead which will automatically be switched internally when `validationState` is `error`? 

```tsx
const [validationState, setValidationState] = React.useState(undefined);

<Checkbox 
  validationState={validationState}
  helpText={'Enter valid username'}
  errorText={'Invalid username provided, contains special chars'}
/>
```

**Conclusion:**  

> Individual Checkboxes will have `errorText`, and if user sets `validationState` on the individual Checkbox when inside the CheckboxGroup we will throw a runtime error.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Individual Checkboxes will have `errorText`, and if user sets `validationState` on the individual Checkbox when inside the CheckboxGroup we will throw at runtime error.
```

Author: Done.

| onChange      | `(value: string[]) => void` | No       | `undefined` | The function to be called when any checkbox's state changes                                                                        |
| name          | `string`                    | No       | `undefined` | The name of the checkbox group, [useful in form submissions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#name) |
| isDisabled    | `boolean`                   | No       | `false`     | Control whether the checkbox group is disabled or not.                                                                             |
| helpText    | `string`                    | No       | `undefined` | The helper text to be rendered                                                                                                     |
| errorText    | `string`                    | No       | `undefined` | The error text to be rendered                                                                                                     |

> | validationState     | `'none' \| 'error'`                   | No       | `undefined`     | Control whether the checkbox group is invalid or not.                                                                              |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| validationState     | `'none' \| 'error'`                   | No       | `none`     | Control whether the checkbox group is invalid or not.                                                                              |
```

Author: fixed

      <CheckboxGroupHelperText type="default | negative" />
    </CheckboxGroupFieldset>
  );
};
```

## `Checkbox` API

| Prop                | Type       | Required | Default   | Description                                                                                                                                              |
| ------------------- | ---------- | -------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| children            | `string`   | No       | undefined | The text to be rendered as CheckboxLabel                                                                                                                 |
| helperText          | `string`   | No       | undefined | The helper text to be rendered                                                                                                                           |
| isChecked           | `boolean`  | No       | false     | state of the checkbox, if explicitly set the checkbox will be controlled                                                                                 |

> | defaultChecked      | `boolean`  | No       | false     | default state of the checkbox, if isChecked is not provided the checkbox will be uncontrolled                                                            |

Reviewer 6: `defaultChecked` will act as an initializer for when we want the checkbox to be uncontrolled. If consumer passes `isChecked={true}` it will _always_ remain checked even when a user tries to toggle the checkbox until consumer changes it to `isChecked={false}` but in case of `defaultChecked={true}` it will start at an initial state of being checked but when a user clicks on the checkbox, it will get unchecked even though `defaultChecked` remains true.

| name (html native)  | `string`   | No       | undefined | The name of the input field in a checkbox, [useful in form submissions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#name)            |
| value (html native) | `string`   | No       | undefined | The value of the input field in a checkbox, [useful in form submissions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/checkbox#value) |
| isDisabled          | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is disabled or not.                                                                                                         |
| isReadOnly          | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is readonly or not.                                                                                                         |
| isInvalid           | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is invalid or not.                                                                                                          |

> | isRequired          | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is required or not.                                                                                                         |

Reviewer: We only have designs for `Disabled` and `Negative`. How will the `isReadOnly=true` and `isRequired=true` checkboxes look from a design standpoint? (assuming `isInvalid` would be the `Negative` state). Do we even have use cases for these in our products? @saurav12

Reviewer 6: +1. Not sure what the use-case for isReadOnly is here and why do we need it

### Examples:

#### Basic

```tsx
// Label text
<Checkbox>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
// Helper text
<Checkbox helperText="Hint: yes">is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
// uncontrolled
<Checkbox defaultChecked={true}>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
// controlled
<Checkbox isChecked={true | false} onChange={isChecked => {}}>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
```

### Validations

> with `isInvalid` & `isRequired` will pass down `required` and `aria-invalid` attributes accordingly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`isRequired` & `isInvalid` will pass down `required` and `aria-invalid` attributes respectively
```

```tsx
<Checkbox isRequired>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
<Checkbox isInvalid={true | false}>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
```

## `CheckboxGroup` API

| Prop          | Type                        | Required | Default     | Description                                                                                                                        |
| ------------- | --------------------------- | -------- | ----------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| children      | React.ReactNode             | No       | `undefined` | Accepts multiple Checkboxes                                                                                                        |
| label         | `string`                    | No       | `undefined` | The label of the group                                                                                                             |

> | labelPosition | `top                        | left`    | No          | `top`                                                                                                                              | The position of the rendered label |

Reviewer: Need to re-format this as `top | left`, currently the operator is being treated as the ending of the cell.

### Examples:

#### Basic

```tsx
<CheckboxGroup
  label="Developers"
  helperText="Pick blade developers"
  defaultValue={['anurag', 'kamlesh']}
>
  <Checkbox value="anurag">Anurag</Checkbox>
  <Checkbox value="kamlesh">Kamlesh</Checkbox>
  <Checkbox value="chaitanya">Chaitanya</Checkbox>
</CheckboxGroup>
```

#### Controlled, Uncontrolled

```tsx
const Controlled = () => {
  const [selected, setSelected] = React.useState(['anurag', 'kamlesh'])

  return (
    <CheckboxGroup
      label="Developers (controlled)"
      value={selected}
      onChange={setSelected}
    >
    <Checkbox value="anurag">Anurag</Checkbox>
    <Checkbox value="kamlesh">Kamlesh</Checkbox>
    <Checkbox value="chaitanya">Chaitanya</Checkbox>
  </CheckboxGroup>
  )
}

const Uncontrolled = () => {
  return (
    <CheckboxGroup
      label="Developers (uncontrolled)"
      defaultValue={['anurag', 'chaitanya']}
    >
      <Checkbox value="anurag">Anurag</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="kamlesh">Kamlesh</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="chaitanya">Chaitanya</Checkbox>
    </CheckboxGroup>
  )
}
```

### Note on CheckboxGroup

> For properties `isDisabled`, `isReadOnly`, `isInvalid`, `isRequired` we want the CheckboxGroup to pass down these props to all the Checkboxes inside of it, but there is a gotcha. 

Reviewer: Should we pass these props from the `CheckboxGroup` or at individual 'Checkbox'? I don't remember the last time when I saw all the checkboxes in a group being disabled, readonly or invalid at once. Generally individual checkboxes can have those states.

Author: Both will be supported you can pass them to Group or individually too. Since <Checkbox /> itself can also have all those common properties.

```tsx
function AnyOneHasToBeSelected() {
  const [selected, setSelected] = React.useState([]);

  return (
    <CheckboxGroup
      label="Do you love any of the fruites?"
      helperText="You can select multiple"
      value={selected}
      onChange={setSelected}
      isRequired
      isInvalid={selected.length === 0 ? true : false}
    >
      <Checkbox value="apple">apple</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="mango">mango</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="orange">orange</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="banana">banana</Checkbox>
    </CheckboxGroup>
  );
}
```

Example of every checkboxes needs to be checked: 

```tsx
function AllOfThemHasToBeSelected() {
  const [selected, setSelected] = React.useState([]);

  return (
    <CheckboxGroup
      label="Do you agree to all the terms?"
      helperText="Select all"
      value={selected}
      onChange={setSelected}
      isRequired
      isInvalid={selected.length === 3 ? true : false}
    >
      <Checkbox value="use-ts">I will use TS</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="no-any">I won't use any</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="use-js">I won't use JS</Checkbox>
    </CheckboxGroup>
  );
}
```

> And lastly users can also individually set `isRequired`, `isInvalid` props on the <Checkbbox \/> components instead of the parent CheckboxGroup for greater fine control. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And lastly users can also individually set `isRequired`, `isInvalid` props on the <Checkbox \/> components instead of the parent CheckboxGroup for greater fine control. 
```

# Checkbox Decisions <!-- omit in toc -->

- [Design](#design)
- [Anatomy](#anatomy)
- [`Checkbox` API](#checkbox-api)
  - [Examples:](#examples)
    - [Basic](#basic)
    - [Validations](#validations)
- [`CheckboxGroup` API](#checkboxgroup-api)
  - [Examples:](#examples-1)
    - [Basic](#basic-1)
    - [Controlled, Uncontrolled](#controlled-uncontrolled)
  - [Note on CheckboxGroup](#note-on-checkboxgroup)
- [Component Architecture](#component-architecture)
- [Accessibility](#accessibility)
- [Open Questions](#open-questions)

## Design

[Figma Link](https://www.figma.com/file/jubmQL9Z8V7881ayUD95ps/Blade---Payment-Light?node-id=13227%3A163026) to all variants of the Checkbox component

## Anatomy

- **Checkbox**
  - **CheckboxInput** - Hidden native <input \/> element
  - **CheckboxIcon** - Checked/Unchecked & indeterminate icon
  - **CheckboxLabel** - The Checkbox's <label \/> element
  - **CheckboxLabelText** - The cross-platform Text component

>   - **CheckboxHelpText** - The helper text component

Reviewer 6: We should look for a way to abstract out `Label` & `HelperText` components so that they can be used for other components that are coming up as well. Anyway - for now let's keep it this way in the API decisions here. We'll figure this out while implementing in the PR

Author: Yeah, We will once we have more form components and have a common API for that.

- **CheckboxGroup**
  - **CheckboxGroupFieldset** - Would render a native <fieldset \/>
  - **CheckboxGroupLegend** - Would render a native <legend \/>
  - **CheckboxGroupHintText** - The helper/error text component

Checkbox Component's Internal Anatomy:

```tsx
const Checkbox = () => {
  return (
    <>
      <CheckboxLabel>
        <CheckboxIcon />
        <VisuallyHidden>
          <CheckboxInput />
        </VisuallyHidden>
        <CheckboxLabelText />
      </CheckboxLabel>
      <CheckboxHelpText />
    </>
  );
};
```

CheckboxGroup Component's Internal Anatomy:

```tsx
const CheckboxGroup = () => {
  return (
    <CheckboxGroupFieldset>
      <CheckboxGroupLegend>title</CheckboxGroupLegend>
      {children}
      <CheckboxGroupHintText variant="help | error" />
    </CheckboxGroupFieldset>
  );
};

> ```

Reviewer 6: Lets remove this for now? We can take care of this in the implementation PR.

| isIndeterminate     | `boolean`  | No       | false     | mixed state of the checkbox                                                                                                                              |
| name (html native)  | `string`   | No       | undefined | The name of the input field in a checkbox, [useful in form submissions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#name)            |
| value (html native) | `string`   | No       | undefined | The value of the input field in a checkbox, [useful in form submissions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/checkbox#value) |
| isDisabled          | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is disabled or not.                                                                                                         |
| hasError           | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is invalid or not.                                                                                                          |

> | isRequired          | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is required or not.                                                                                                         |

Reviewer 6: Didn't we conclude that we'll remove this?

Author: Hmm.. missed this part but we concluded to remove it on the CheckboxGroup in addition of showOptionalLabel, 
The user can mark individual Checkbox isRequired right if not used with CheckboxGroup?

Reviewer: I think we decided to remove `isRequired` from everywhere and just have `showOptionalLabel` on the CheckboxGroup. All the validations for if a checkbox has to be checked or not will be dependent on the logic provided by consumers.

Author: Oh 🤔 

We also discussed along the lines of "The checkbox will not be used outside of CheckboxGroup" something like that right? If so then it's fine to remove isRequired. 

But if say the checkbox can be used outside of <CheckboxGroup then we should consider isRequired. for html forms and screen readers.

Author: @chaitanyadeorukhkar @nashcheez Let's keep isRequired. since now we have a better API `neccessityIndicator=required|optional` we can propagate it to the checkboxes to have better screen reader accessibility and set the native `required` prop.

| label         | `string`                    | Yes       | `undefined` | The label of the group                                                                                                             |
| labelPosition | `top, left`                 | No       | `top`       | The position of the rendered label                                                                                                 |
| helpText    | `string`                    | No       | `undefined` | The helper text to be rendered                                                                                                     |
| errorText    | `string`                    | No       | `undefined` | The error text to be rendered                                                                                                     |
| defaultValue  | `string[]`                  | No       | `[]`        | The initial value of the checkbox group                                                                                            |

> | value         | `string[]`                  | No       | `[]`        | The value of the checkbox, if present will act as controlled component                                                             |

Reviewer 6: Should these always accept an array or can it take a string when only 1 value needs to be passed? 🤔

Author: Always array. `string | string[]` will just make things complicated.

Author: We can do only string[] array now since for single checkboxes we can now use individual checkbox.

      label="Do you love any of the fruites?"
      helpText="You can select multiple"
      value={selected}
      onChange={setSelected}
      hasError={selected.length === 0}
    >
      <Checkbox value="apple">apple</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="mango">mango</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="orange">orange</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="banana">banana</Checkbox>
    </CheckboxGroup>
  );
}
```

Example of every checkboxes needs to be checked:

```tsx
function AllOfThemHasToBeSelected() {
  const [selected, setSelected] = React.useState([]);

  return (
    <CheckboxGroup
      label="Do you agree to all the terms?"
      helpText="Select all"
      value={selected}
      onChange={setSelected}
      hasError={selected.length < 2}
    >
      <Checkbox value="use-ts">I will use TS</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="no-any">I won't use any</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="use-js">I won't use JS</Checkbox>
    </CheckboxGroup>
  );
}
```

## Accessibility

- Checkbox - https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/checkbox/
- CheckboxGroup - The group's accessibility is bit tricky to get right, thus I'll implement and refine it and then document it here. 

## Open Questions

> 1. Currently we only have `helpText` in Checkbox & CheckboxGroup and when we set `hasError` it becomes the `negative` variant. The problem is the content of the `helpText` should also change in certain scenarios to convey the exact error. 

Reviewer 6: We concluded that we'll go ahead with `helpText` as well as `errorText`. Can we strike off this open question now?

Author: I've added "conclusion" in the end.

- [Component Architecture](#component-architecture)
- [Accessibility](#accessibility)
- [Open Questions](#open-questions)

## Design

[Figma Link](https://www.figma.com/file/jubmQL9Z8V7881ayUD95ps/Blade---Payment-Light?node-id=13227%3A163026) to all variants of the Checkbox component

## Anatomy

- **Checkbox**
  - **CheckboxInput** - Hidden native <input \/> element
  - **CheckboxIcon** - Checked/Unchecked & indeterminate icon
  - **CheckboxLabel** - The Checkbox's <label \/> element
  - **CheckboxLabelText** - The cross-platform Text component
  - **CheckboxHelperText** - The helper text component
- **CheckboxGroup**
  - **CheckboxGroupFieldset** - Would render a native <fieldset \/>
  - **CheckboxGroupLegend** - Would render a native <legend \/>
  - **CheckboxGroupHelperText** - The helper text component

Checkbox Component's Internal Anatomy:

```tsx
const Checkbox = () => {
  return (
    <>
      <CheckboxLabel>
        <CheckboxIcon />
        <VisuallyHidden>
          <CheckboxInput />
        </VisuallyHidden>
        <CheckboxLabelText />
      </CheckboxLabel>
      <CheckboxHelperText />
    </>
  );
};
```

CheckboxGroup Component's Internal Anatomy:

```tsx

> const CheckboxGrop = () => {

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
const CheckboxGroup = () => {
```

| isIndeterminate     | `boolean`  | No       | false     | mixed state of the checkbox                                                                                                                              |
| name (html native)  | `string`   | No       | undefined | The name of the input field in a checkbox, [useful in form submissions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#name)            |
| value (html native) | `string`   | No       | undefined | The value of the input field in a checkbox, [useful in form submissions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/checkbox#value) |
| isDisabled          | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is disabled or not.                                                                                                         |
| isReadOnly          | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is readonly or not.                                                                                                         |

> | isInvalid           | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is invalid or not.                                                                                                          |

Reviewer 6: Since this indicates an error state. Invalid seems too specific whereas error seems a bit generic. It might make a consumer think that setting it as invalid might make the checkbox invalid and make it disappear from the checkbox group. Error is a widely accepted negative state. Thoughts?
```suggestion
| hasError           | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is in a error state.                                                                                                          |
```

| isRequired          | `boolean`  | No       | `false`   | Control whether the checkbox is required or not.                                                                                                         |

### Examples:

#### Basic

```tsx
// Label text
<Checkbox>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
// Helper text
<Checkbox helperText="Hint: yes">is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
// uncontrolled
<Checkbox defaultChecked={true}>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
// controlled
<Checkbox isChecked={true | false} onChange={isChecked => {}}>is blade awesome?</Checkbox>
```

> #### Validations

Reviewer 6: Some of these validations seem a bit complex to understand at first glance. You've explained it well here but our API won't be able to communicate it when a consumer is using it.  Lets discuss if we can reduce some complexity here?

Author: We will need these anyway. and now we decided to have validationState prop so it will stay as is. Let me know if you have any ideas to reduce the complexity further.

  );
}
```

Example of every checkboxes needs to be checked:

```tsx
function AllOfThemHasToBeSelected() {
  const [selected, setSelected] = React.useState([]);

  return (
    <CheckboxGroup
      label="Do you agree to all the terms?"
      helperText="Select all"
      value={selected}
      onChange={setSelected}
      isRequired
      isInvalid={selected.length === 3 ? true : false}
    >
      <Checkbox value="use-ts">I will use TS</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="no-any">I won't use any</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="use-js">I won't use JS</Checkbox>
    </CheckboxGroup>
  );
}
```

And lastly users can also individually set `isRequired`, `isInvalid` props on the <Checkbbox \/> components instead of the parent CheckboxGroup for greater fine control.

```tsx
function IndividualCheckboxValidation() {
  return (
    <CheckboxGroup label="Do you agree to all the terms?" helperText="Select all">
      <Checkbox value="use-ts" isRequired>
        I will use TS
      </Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="no-any">I won't use any (you can use it)</Checkbox>
      <Checkbox value="use-js" isRequired>
        I won't use JS
      </Checkbox>
    </CheckboxGroup>
  );
}
```

> ## Component Architecture

Reviewer 6: Good details but I'd suggest removing these from the decision doc since this might attract a lot of feedbacks & suggestions that might not be relevant at API decision phase. We can review this in the implementation PR instead and you might realise some other things while implementing that you might not be able to at this time which could change this architecture too.

**useCheckbox:**

useCheckbox will handle the checkbox's toggle state & return props; 

Here's the signature: 

```ts
const useCheckbox = (props: CheckboxProps) => {
  // this useControllable state will abstract out the logic for
  // controlled & uncontrolled state management
  const [checked, setChecked] = useControllableState()
  
  return {
    checkboxProps: {
      onMouseDown, 
      onClick
    },
    inputProps: {
      accessibilityProps: makeAcccessible(...),
      ...otherProps
    },
    labelProps: {
      ...otherLabelProps
    }
  }
}
```

**useCheckboxGroup:**

useCheckboxGroup will return label props, group props & handle all the ID generation for the accessible labels, errors & helper texts.

```ts
const useCheckboxGroup = (props: CheckboxGroupProps) => {
  return {
    labelProps: {
      ...otherProps
    },
    groupProps: {
      isDisabled, 
      isReadOnly,
      ...otherGroupProps
    }
  }
}
```

**CheckboxGroupContext:**

CheckboxGroupContext will pass down the <CheckboxGroup \/> properties like `isDisabled`, `isReadOnly` to the Checkboxes.

## Accessibility

- Checkbox - https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/checkbox/

> - CheckboxGroup - The group's accessibility is bit tricky to get right, thus I'll implement and refine it and then document it here. 

Reviewer 6: Translates to - "I'll handle it, don't worry" 

Nice 😂

## Open Questions

1. Currently we only have `helperText` in Checkbox & CheckboxGroup and when we set `isInvalid` it becomes the `negative` variant. The problem is the content of the `helperText` should also change in certain scenarios to convey the exact error. 

With this approach users will have to handle the logic

```tsx
const [isInvalid, setInvalid] = React.useState(false);

<Checkbox 
  isInvalid={isInvalid}
  helperText={
    isInvalid
    ? 'Invalid username provided, contains special chars' 
    : 'Enter valid username'
  }
/>
```

> Will it be better to have a `errorText` prop instead which will automatically be switched internally is `isInvalid` is true? 

Reviewer 6: I think this should be the case. Whenever `isInvalid` (I prefer `hasError`) is true, it will ignore the helperText & render the errorText instead. We could even enforce consumers to pass an `errorText` whenever they are using `isInvalid` (`hasError`)
